# Custom Domain Service Broker

A [Cloud Foundry](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/) [service broker](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/services/) that provides a custom domain service. Traffic is encrypted using an SSL certificate generated by [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).

For the CDN version of this broker: https://github.com/18F/cf-cdn-service-broker

## Deployment

### Automated

The easiest/recommended way to deploy the broker is via the [Concourse](http://concourse.ci/) pipeline.

1. Create a `ci/credentials.yml` file, and fill in the templated values from [the pipeline](ci/pipeline.yml).
1. Deploy the pipeline.

    ```bash
    fly -t lite set-pipeline -n -c ci/pipeline.yml -p deploy-domains-broker -l ci/credentials.yml
    ```

### Updating ALBs
On startup, the broker automatically detects ALBs based on their name. To pick up changes, simply restart the broker.

## Usage

1. Target the space your application is running in.

    ```bash
    $ cf target -o <org> -s <space>
    ```

1. Add your domain to your Cloud Foundry organization:

    ````bash
    $ cf create-domain <org> my.domain.gov
    ```

1. Create a service instance.

    ```bash
    $ cf create-service custom-domain custom-domain my-domain -c '{"domains": ["my.domain.gov"]}'

    Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service my-domain' to check operation status.
    ```

    If you have more than one domain you can pass them as a list to the domains parameter, just keep in mind that the broker will wait until all domains are CNAME'd:

    ```bash
    $ cf create-service cdn-route cdn-route my-cdn-route -c '{"domains": ["my.domain.gov","www.my.domain.gov"]}'

    Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service my-domain' to check operation status.
    ```

1. Get the DNS instructions. (note that the target of the CNAME will probably be different for you)

    ```bash
    $ cf service my-domain

    Last Operation
    Status: create in progress
    Message: Provisioning in progress; CNAME domain "my.domain.gov" to "production-domains-0-792003535.us-gov-west-1.elb.amazonaws.com"
    ```

1. Create/update your DNS configuration.

1. Wait up to 30 minutes for the CloudFront distribution to be provisioned and the DNS changes to propagate.

1. Visit `my.domain.gov`, and see that you have a valid certificate (i.e. that visiting your site in a modern browser doesn't give you a certificate warning).

1. Add your domain to a Cloud Foundry application:

    ```bash
    $ cf map-route <app> my.domain.gov
    ```

## Debugging

By default, Cloud Controller will expire asynchronous service instances that have been pending for over one week. If your instance expires, run a dummy update
to restore it to the pending state so that Cloud Controller will continue to check for updates:

```bash
cf update-service my-domain -c '{"timestamp": 20161001}'
```

## Tests

```bash
go test -v $(go list ./... | grep -v /vendor/)
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for additional information.

## Public domain

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md). As stated in [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0 dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply with this waiver of copyright interest.
